Architecture & purpose
- Admin: Generates an RSA election keypair and splits the private exponent with Shamir into shares. Posts the public key to the server and opens/closes the election.
- Client: Authenticates a voter by loading their private key from the given id. Signs & via RSA public key encrypts the ballot. Also reads the status of election and results once counted.
- Registrar: Registers voters by creating ECDSA keypairs for them and storing private keys and publishes the public keys.
- Server: Answers get and post requests for voters, status, candidates, ballot submission, public key distribution, posting of final tallies etc and enforces role based access on them. Maintains own memory state guarded by lock. Signature verification and user authentication handled here. Writes all security relevant actions to a log and pseudonymises ballot voter IDs before sending to tallier.
- Shamir: Shamir share generation and reconstruction functions, a demo to test it works and next large probable prime function.
- Tallier: Once voting is closed, fetches ballots reconstructs the RSA private exponent if over the threshold of required shares given. Rebuilds RSA private key and decrypts ballots, tallies/deduplicates and posts final results to server
- Kerberos: Retrieves and makes a secret. Uses secret in creation of auth tokens with expiry dates which it can verify. Hashes passwords and checks hashed passwords against for authentication.

Component interaction
- Registrar writes public keys and server only trusts signatures it can verify from this file
- Admin posts RSA public key to server to start election
- Client submits voterid, ciphertext, signature and keyid to the server. The server only accepts when the status of the voting is set to open, and signature is verified
- Tallier gets ballots from server, runs after close reconstructs d from shares, decrypts ballots with a matching keyid for the specific election, dedupes and posts results server
- Server uses kerberos for validation of tokens and authentication of users

Running instructions
Before running the below, usernames and passwords must be set up for each admin and tallier and passwords for voters after their usernames are generated by the registrar. As this wouldn’t occur via the system in a real-world example, the auth.py file and functionality have not been added to the architecture or the data flow diagram. After step 2 auth.py must be ran and credentials set up for all the above mentioned, admin and tallier can have any username, but the voters must be set up with the specific username that is generated by the registrar as the voter ID.
1. Start the server:
python server.py
2. Register voters - choose the amount then type voters to view voter_ids
python registrar.py
add *<amount of voters wanted>
voters
3. Open the election and enter amount of talliers and the threshold to recreate the RSA for decryption
python admin.py
<login with username and password>
open
<talliers>
<threshold amount>
4. Clients can now vote after they are authenticated with their voter_id
python client.py
<voter_id and password to login>
vote <candidate of choosing>
5. Close election via admin.py
close
6. Decrypt then tally the votes/ deduplicate them and return the results
python tallier.py
< enter username and password and log in>
<enter the key_id of the election to tally for>
<Enter the amount of shares required to succeed via their id>
7. Client.py can view the results once tallying is completed if tried before error letting them know still tallying appears
results